4 WEB DESIGN PRINCIPLES

1. Color Theory
2. Typography
3. User Interface Design
4. User Experience Design

Beaware of the Mood of Color\
Like
Red-  Love, energy, intensity
yellow - Joy, Intellect, Attention
Green - Freshness, Safety, Growth
blue - Stability, Trust, Serenity
Purple - Royalty, Wealth, Feminity
[choose logo color based on this mood of your company]

COMBINING COLORS 
To make thing Pop out Use Complementary Colors
You can use Color Hunt or Color Adobe to Pick Combination of Colors
You can visit different websites and see which color to pick to combine in order to website look good


TYPOGRAPHY
Fonts matter on basis of Mood, time user want to give, understandability, etc.
If you want to look old go for old style serif
If you want to look modern go for modern style serif

EMOTION BEHIND Fonts
1.Serif - traditional, stable, respectable
2.Sans-serif - Sensible, simple, Straightforward
3.Script - Personal, creative, Elegant
4.Display - Friendly, Loud, Amusing
5.Modern - Stylish, Chic, Smart

Check how easy it is to read and how pleasurable it is to read
Readability and legibility is Incredibly Important

Legibility can be determined in fonts by -:
1. open Shapes
2. Ample intercharacter spacing
3. Unambiguous forms
4. Varying proportions

Stick to 2 Fonts in One Design to look Professional - looks clean and tidy
Find fonts with similar mood and time era with each other

If you want to contrast-:
then 1. serif and sans serif for heading non-heading
     2. Dif Font Weight for heading and non-heading


USER INTERFACE DESIGNS

We always look first at bigger, bolder font and then at the lesser One
1.HIERACHY
Use this knowledge to define HIERACHY
Use Font Size and Weight Hierachy to convey Important Message first

For higher hierachy use contrasting Colors
use contrasting colors to tell user pn what they should really look at

2.LAYOUT
different sizes and shapes to make the design interesting for the user
Too long or tooo short layout to read the data makes it difficult to read for the user

3.ALIGNMENT
Same alignment across the website makes it look good
Align all the things on a line
Helps looking Professional
Alignment will increase the design valuse without color,etc.

4.WHITE SPACE
Space some white are around the product or anything important it will help in looking the product more expensive
Like what the jwellery shops do
Too much content or text or branding makes it look cheap
Add white space around to be expensive

5.AUDIENCE
There would be difference of what would be appealed to Tech people than those of management one 

SOME OTHER POINTS
Add flexibility in your DESIGNS


USER EXPERIENCE DESIGN
1.SIMPLICITY
Keep thing simple , don't make it complicated
Don't make too densed, otherwise mind of user will be blocked

2.CONSISTENCY
Keep design as well as functionality consistent
Don't make different navbar or footer for different pages, it may confuse user where he walked through

3.READING PATTERNS
Which part user look at with which PATTERNS
common pattern - F
Put more important part in the left side of the website
Other Pattern - Z
Think how people look at website page and make the website easier for them

4.ALL PLATFORM DESIGN
Mobile and tablet responsive design
Make sure website rearrange itself
Do Professional test and ask for feedback on DESIGNS

5.DON'T USE YOUR POWERS FOR EVILS
Don't cheat user by designing cleverly


